---
layout: post
title: Case Study about inappropriate Use of Surveys
subtitle: Summary
categories: Module 8 unit5 post
tags: [Cyber security, Essex, Surveys]
---

# Case study: Inappropriate Use of Surveys

Cambridge Analytica scandal serves as a fundamental example of the unethical use of user data, particularly on social media platforms like Facebook. This incident involved the unauthorized harvest of personal data of millions of users to create psychographic profiles, which were later used for targeted political publicity. Brown (2020) postulates that this manipulation of personal information led to a reassessment of user involvement with these platforms, highlighting a critical disconnection between user confidence and corporate responsibility. The implications of this misuse extend beyond individual data violations, affecting broader social norms in relation to privacy and consent. In addition, Wagner (2021) emphasizes the ethical, sociological and philosophical dimensions of this data exploration, suggesting that it erode the fundamental principles of user autonomy and informed consent. By leveraging sophisticated algorithms to influence voter behavior, Cambridge Analytica highlights a worrying intersection of technology and democratic processes, which can lead to adverse social consequences.

Similarly, Google launched the Screenwise project. Although the program was presented as a voluntary market research initiative, it was later discovered that underage users were being recruited, violating child privacy laws. The opaque nature of the use of data is parallel to the ethical concerns raised by Cambridge Analytica. Both instances cause scrutiny regarding the transparency and ethical responsibilities of companies to protect user information (Brown, 2020).

This case study reveals not only the legal vulnerabilities inherent in data privacy regulations, but also raises ethical questions about the responsibilities of data manipulator in professional contexts. The consequences of Cambridge Analytica exemplifies the urgent need for comprehensive data protection structures that prioritize ethical considerations along with technological advancement.

# References:

- Brown, A.J. (2020) “‘Should I Stay or Should I Leave?’: Exploring (Dis)continued Facebook Use After the Cambridge Analytica Scandal,” Social Media and Society, 6(1). Available at: https://doi.org/10.1177/2056305120913884.

- Wagner, P. (2021) “Data Privacy - The Ethical, Sociological, and Philosophical Effects of Cambridge Analytica,” SSRN Electronic Journal [Preprint]. Available at: https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3782821.
