---
layout: post
title: Module 8 unit11 post
subtitle: Summary
categories: e-portfolio preparation
tags: [Cyber security, Essex, eportfolio]
---


I used the Four Fs framework: Facts, Feelings, Findings, and Future from the university of Edinburgh (The University of Edinburgh, 2018) for my reflection.


# SWOT analysis


1- Strengths:
Gained knowledge of qualitative, quantitative, and mixed-methods approaches (Creswell, 2003). Moreover, gained practical skills in research design and data collection techniques. Also, I have the needed skills in analyzing complex issues in the field of computer science

2- Weaknesses:
Initial difficulties in understanding and applying statistical concepts
Need to enhance skills in research and findings peer reviewed articles around a specific topic

3- Opportunities
Enrolling in courses or workshops to improve proficiency in statistical tools, for example I used R studio to calculate the t.test and not excel. Moreover, collaboration with peers and leveraging feedback and guidance

4- Threats
difficulty in the beginning to choose the proper research topic out of the proposed titles to make sure that the topic has relevant peer reviewed article to refer to. Furthermore, time constraints due to high expectations from the module and the amount of activities that need to be finished in addition to the assignments to complete within our working life.



# Action plan:

1- Strengthening Statistical Analysis Skills by enhacing my knowledge in R and Python. For example, I intend to participate in a hackathon at work to promote an idea using python, the project or idea should have value in context of our work and team.

2- Enhancing my time management to be able to coop with the upcoming deadlines, especially when it comes to the final dissertation next module

3- Establish collaborations with fellow students and tutors for guidance, we already started study groups on telegram.

4- Ensuring Ethical Compliance in research, in addition to data privacy and GDPR when conducting interviews for the dissertation



# References:


Creswell, J.W. (2003) “Research design Qualitative quantitative and mixed methods approaches,” Research design Qualitative quantitative and mixed methods approaches [Preprint]. Available at: https://doi.org/10.3109/08941939.2012.723954.

The University of Edinburgh (2018). The Four F’s of Active Reviewing. [online] The University of Edinburgh. Available at: https://www.ed.ac.uk/reflection/reflectors-toolkit/reflecting-on-experience/four-f [March 27 Nov. 2025].
